## Data files for COMM3180 Group Project

* This folder contains all the datasets used in our analysis comparing outcomes for UPenn and UUIC alumni.

* In the Raw folder, the data is organized into three subfolders based on the area of analysis: **Overall_Data**, **Business_Schools**, and **Engineering_Data**. Most of this data was manually collected and compiled into spreadsheet files (.csv), since much of it is published online in formats that can't be directly downloaded. 

* **Overall_Data** contains an overall.csv file gathered from the Department of Education: College Scoreboard data, containing data from Ivy League Schools and the Big Ten. This data was all manually extracted. This csv file contains earnings after 6-years and 10-years post grad, median debt at graduation, and average annual cost. The next data set upenn_mobility_clean.csv is mobility data of both UPenn and UIUC, gathered from tax records. This dataset contains median family income, family income percentile, percentage from top 1% all the way to bottom 20%, median individual income at age 34, income mobility statistics (moving up 2 quintiles, bottom to top quintile, student becomes rich factor). The upenn_uiuc_sentiments.csv and upenn_uiuc_sentiment_summ.csv both include a sentiment analysis using 50 different internet sources that individually rank each category, and creates an overall sentiment score. the upenn_uiuc_sentiments.csv is a much more detailed file that shows the individual rankings and scores for each category/description. The upenn_uiuc_sentiment_summ.csv file combines this and provides a general score for each school. In the upenn_uiuc_sentiment_sources.csv file, it describes the sources and the process (categories) gathered to create a sentiment score from -2 (negative) to 2 (positive). The upenn_uiuc_sentiment_summary contains the gathered values to create a total avg_manual_sentiment score that measures the general impression towards each school, whether it be positive or negative. The last data set upenn_alumni_cities.csv provides the top 10 locations alumni reside in post-graduation for both UPenn and UIUC. 


* Within the **Business Schools folder**, the manual dataset labeled wharton_salaries.csv gathers the median and mean salaries for the most popular majors (accounting, finance, and marketing) within the Wharton business school in the recent years of 2021 to 2025. It also contains dataset gies_salaries.csv (UUIC's business school), gathering the mean_salary for the accounting, finance, and marketing majors. I have also added several additional datasets which I manually created .csv files for on Excel. The first being salary_progressions.csv which includes the standardized income trajectory of big 4 accounting firms and investment banking firms (sources are from CaseBasix and Mergers & Inquisitions). This is a standardized, albeit assumption-based, income trajectory for Gies and Wharton graduates (where accounting is the top placement in Gies and IB is the top placement in Wharton). I also looked at school_costs_by_income.csv to figure out ROI, as well as average expected tuition based on household incomes (using the US Department of Education's College Scorecards). Finally, I looked at overall IndustryPlacements.csv to reveal what the overall career sentiments are in each college (using career outcome data from both school's career service page). Also, in this folder, is google search trends analysis of both business schools between 2004 and 2026 regarding the search rates of the acceptance rates of each business school.

* Within the **Engineering_Data folder**, the csv file labeled penn_vs_uiuc_engineering_data_v3.csv contains a comparision of Penn SEAS and UIUC Grainger across a wide range of engineering school outcomes. The dataset contains roughly a dozen thematic categories including starting salary trends from 2016 to 2025, industry and employer placement, job function breakdowns, full-time employment vs graduate school rates, geographic distribution of graduates, major-lvel outcomes, cost of attendance, ROI estimates, economic mobility metrics, reputation rankings, and alumni satisfaction survey data. THe primary sources are from annual Penn SEAS career outcome PDFs, UIUC's Illini Success reports, the DOE College Scorecard, Opportunity Insights mobility data, and a 2017 Penn alumni survey. 



